h1. Lua Haml

h2. About

Lua Haml is an in-progress implementation of the "Haml":http://haml-lang.com markup language for Lua.

At the moment, only a small subset of the Haml language works, but it's fairly close to being usable for simple template work.

To see what language features are currently supported, view the "currently support language" template in the spec directory, or take a look at the list of language samples in the renderer spec.

h3. Immediate project goals

* Support the same Haml language as Ruby Haml with no unecessary changes. Lua Haml should just be Haml, with no embracing and extending.
* Add only minimal changes to make Haml more comfortable for Lua; i.e., "--" for comments rather than "#", and Lua tables as attributes.
* Include a cache for compiled templates.
* Help with and contribute to other Haml implementations.

h3. Potential goals

* Compile templates for other programming language. Ideally Lua Haml could be used in place of Ruby's Haml by using "Rufus-Lua":http://github.com/jmettraux/rufus-lua. The precompiler does only minimal code interpretation; far less than an editor like vim does. So this should very doable.

* Support source languages other than Haml. The lexer and precompiler are fairly well decoupled, so in theory it should be possible to create a lexer
for a different language that targets Lua Haml's precompiler. In practice this might not be worth doing - time will tell.

h2. Playing around with it

The command line utility in @bin/luahaml@ can be used to exercise most of the functionality of Luahaml. Simply clone the git repo and play with it; Luahaml's only dependency is Lua 5.1.

If you want to run the specs, you need to first install Luaspec, which you can
find at: "http://github.com/mirven/luaspec":http://github.com/mirven/luaspec.

To install Luaspec from Luarocks, clone the repo, cd into it and enter:

@sudo luarocks make *.rockspec@

h2. Author

"Norman Clarke":mailto://norman@njclarke.com

h2. Attributions

Some of the sample files in test/samples were taken from "Ruby's Haml":http://github.com/nex3/haml/.

h2. License

The MIT License

Copyright (c) 2009 Norman Clarke

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
